#summary Example of how the volition module will be used to read and write a POF file.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Design

==Reading a POF file into Blender==

After the user selects a file and options, the file is loaded with `pof_file = open(pof_path, 'rb')`.  `volition.read_pof(pof_file)` is then called.  That function iterates through the file with a `while` loop, reading each chunk's ID and length.  The binary chunk data is stuffed into a `RawData` object, and a `try-except` block uses a dictionary to create a class for the chunk from the chunk ID, calling `read_chunk()` for each one.  `volition.read_pof()` returns a set of chunk objects.  The importer script iterates through that set, using another dictionary with a `try-except` block to parse the chunks that have been selected by the user into Blender.  The `try-except` block calls a function for each chunk, passing a dictionary containing the parameters selected when the script was run, to be checked by each function.

===Parsing mesh data===

~~The `SHLD` chunk's `read_chunk()` method creates a `Mesh` object and its associated vertex, edge, and face lists as `SHLDChunk.mesh`.  A `Mesh` object can easily be converted to a Blender mesh by iterating through the vertices, edges, and faces.~~

The subobject chunks' `read_chunk()` method, however, only creates a list of BSP blocks `SOBJChunk.bsp_tree`.  The subobject chunks contain an additional method `create_mesh_from_bsp()` to iterate through the BSP tree and create a `Mesh` object `SOBJChunk.mesh`, assigning `Edge.seam` values according to the arrangement of vertex normals.

==Writing a POF file==

A POF file passed to `volition.pof.write_pof()` is a sequence of chunks.  The method basically iterates through the sequence and calls each chunk's `write_chunk()` method and appends the result to a bytes object, which it returns.  The returned bytes object is the entire POF file, ready to be written to the disk.

`write_pof()` does not validate many of the values that are written.  An additional `validate_pof()` method should be written to make sure values that are dependent on other parts of the file (such as `HeaderChunk.num_subobjects` and `HeaderChunk.max_radius`) are valid.  This method would be called after the sequence of chunks is created by some other process so it can fill in any missing chunk attributes.