#summary Documentation for volition.pof.HeaderChunk
#labels Phase-Implementation

==Instance Attributes==

  * _max_radius_ - Float, the radius of the entire model (including all submodels).
  * _obj_flags_ - Object flags, stored as an integer.  Bit 1 = textures contain tiling.
  * _num_subobjects_ - Number of submodels in the file.
  * _min_bounding_ and _max_bounding_ - Two vectors, indicating the bounding box of the entire model (including all submodels).
  * _num_detail_levels_ - Number of detail level submodels in the file.
  * _sobj_detail_levels_ - A list of ints with each item indicating the submodel ID of a detail level.  `sobj_detail_levels[0]` is the ID of the highest detail level, `detail-0`, and so forth.
  * _num_debris_ - Number of debris submodels in the file.
  * _sobj_debris_ - A list of ints with each item indicating the submodel ID of a debris model.
  * _mass_ - Float, ship mass, used for physics.
  * _mass_center_ - Vector, ship's center of mass, used for physics.
  * _inertia_tensor_ - 3x3 tuple of floats, the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inertia_tensor#The_inertia_tensor inertia tensor] of the ship, used for physics.
  * _num_cross_sections_ - Number of cross-sections used for large ship explosions.
  * _cross_section_depth_ - List of floats, the depth (?) of each cross-section.
  * _cross_section_radius_ - List of floats, the radius of each cross-section.
  * _light_locations_ - List of vectors, the locations of each muzzleflash.
  * _light_types_ - List of ints, the type (?) of each muzzleflash.